STTPortable/README.md, before:

# STTPortable

STTPortable is a portable Windows 10/11 utility that captures audio from your microphone, transcribes it offline with whisper.cpp, and inserts the resulting text at the current caret position without leaving your active application. No installation is required once you provide the transcription model and command-line tools.

> _Screenshot placeholder — drop a screenshot of the Settings window here when available._

## Quick Start

1. Download a Windows build of **ffmpeg.exe** and **whisper.exe**. Place both executables in the [`bin/`](bin/) folder.
2. Download an English-only Whisper GGUF model such as `ggml-medium.en.gguf` and copy it into [`models/`](models/).
3. Double-click `src/TalkPaste.ahk` (AutoHotkey v2 script) or compile it with `build/build.bat` to produce `build/TalkPaste.exe`.
4. Position your text caret anywhere, press **Win+Ctrl+T** to start recording, speak, then press the hotkey again. The transcription appears where the caret was.

## Default Hotkeys

| Action | Hotkey |
| --- | --- |
| Toggle record / transcribe / insert | `Win+Ctrl+T` |
| Open Settings | `Win+Ctrl+,` |
| Cancel recording | `Win+Ctrl+X` |
| Toggle insert mode (paste/type) | `Win+Ctrl+Y` |

All hotkeys can be changed in **Settings**.

## Settings

Open the Settings window from the tray icon or with **Win+Ctrl+,**. You can:

- Assign a new toggle hotkey using the Hotkey control (rebinding applies immediately after saving).
- Choose the transcription model path.
- Select the insert mode: **Paste** (clipboard round-trip and Ctrl+V) or **Type** (SendText).

Settings persist in `config/config.ini`. The file is created automatically after the first save.

## Microphone Configuration

STTPortable defaults to the DirectShow `audio=Default` device at 16 kHz mono. To see all available devices, run:

```
ffmpeg -list_devices true -f dshow -i dummy
```

Copy the exact device name (e.g., `audio=Microphone (USB Audio Device)`) and paste it into the `mic_device` value in `config/config.ini` if you need a different input.

## Models and Performance

Whisper GGUF models vary in size and speed:

- `ggml-tiny.en.gguf`: smallest, fastest, lowest accuracy.
- `ggml-base.en.gguf`: balanced speed and accuracy.
- `ggml-medium.en.gguf` (recommended): higher accuracy for desktop CPUs.
- `ggml-large-v2.en.gguf`: best accuracy, slowest CPU transcription.

English-only `.en` models run faster than multilingual equivalents. Consider your CPU capabilities when choosing a model.

## Troubleshooting

- **Paste blocked** (e.g., elevated apps, secure fields): press **Win+Ctrl+Y** to switch to **Type** mode and retry.
- **Missing binaries or model**: the app shows an error dialog and logs details to [`logs/sttportable.log`](logs/).
- **Permission or antivirus warnings**: whitelist the folder or run the script compiled with Ahk2Exe.
- **Audio device issues**: confirm the microphone is accessible in Windows privacy settings. Override `mic_device` if necessary.

## Logging

Error conditions append timestamped entries to `logs/sttportable.log`. Include this file when reporting issues.

## Build

Run `build/build.bat` to compile `src/TalkPaste.ahk` into a standalone executable. The script auto-detects an optional icon (`src/mic.ico`). Ensure Ahk2Exe is installed and available on your PATH.

After a successful build the script also creates `build/TalkPaste.test`, which is just the generated executable with the extension renamed for easier file sharing. Rename it back to `TalkPaste.exe` before running it on Windows.

## Manual Tests

See [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) for end-to-end scenarios that verify recording, transcription, hotkey changes, and failure handling.

## Credits

- [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/)
- [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp)
- [AutoHotkey v2](https://www.autohotkey.com/v2/)

Commit message:

Add Windows GitHub Actions build and update docs

STTPortable/README.md, after:

# STTPortable

STTPortable is a portable Windows 10/11 utility that captures audio from your microphone, transcribes it offline with whisper.cpp, and inserts the resulting text at the current caret position without leaving your active application. No installation is required once you provide the transcription model and command-line tools.

> _Screenshot placeholder — drop a screenshot of the Settings window here when available._

## Quick Start

1. Download a Windows build of **ffmpeg.exe** and **whisper.exe**. Place both executables in the [`bin/`](bin/) folder.
2. Download an English-only Whisper GGUF model such as `ggml-medium.en.gguf` and copy it into [`models/`](models/).
3. Double-click `src/TalkPaste.ahk` (AutoHotkey v2 script) or compile it with `build/build.bat` to produce `build/TalkPaste.exe`.
4. Position your text caret anywhere, press **Win+Ctrl+T** to start recording, speak, then press the hotkey again. The transcription appears where the caret was.

## Default Hotkeys

| Action | Hotkey |
| --- | --- |
| Toggle record / transcribe / insert | `Win+Ctrl+T` |
| Open Settings | `Win+Ctrl+,` |
| Cancel recording | `Win+Ctrl+X` |
| Toggle insert mode (paste/type) | `Win+Ctrl+Y` |

All hotkeys can be changed in **Settings**.

## Settings

Open the Settings window from the tray icon or with **Win+Ctrl+,**. You can:

- Assign a new toggle hotkey using the Hotkey control (rebinding applies immediately after saving).
- Choose the transcription model path.
- Select the insert mode: **Paste** (clipboard round-trip and Ctrl+V) or **Type** (SendText).

Settings persist in `config/config.ini`. The file is created automatically after the first save.

## Microphone Configuration

STTPortable defaults to the DirectShow `audio=Default` device at 16 kHz mono. To see all available devices, run:

```
ffmpeg -list_devices true -f dshow -i dummy
```

Copy the exact device name (e.g., `audio=Microphone (USB Audio Device)`) and paste it into the `mic_device` value in `config/config.ini` if you need a different input.

## Models and Performance

Whisper GGUF models vary in size and speed:

- `ggml-tiny.en.gguf`: smallest, fastest, lowest accuracy.
- `ggml-base.en.gguf`: balanced speed and accuracy.
- `ggml-medium.en.gguf` (recommended): higher accuracy for desktop CPUs.
- `ggml-large-v2.en.gguf`: best accuracy, slowest CPU transcription.

English-only `.en` models run faster than multilingual equivalents. Consider your CPU capabilities when choosing a model.

## Troubleshooting

- **Paste blocked** (e.g., elevated apps, secure fields): press **Win+Ctrl+Y** to switch to **Type** mode and retry.
- **Missing binaries or model**: the app shows an error dialog and logs details to [`logs/sttportable.log`](logs/).
- **Permission or antivirus warnings**: whitelist the folder or run the script compiled with Ahk2Exe.
- **Audio device issues**: confirm the microphone is accessible in Windows privacy settings. Override `mic_device` if necessary.

## Logging

Error conditions append timestamped entries to `logs/sttportable.log`. Include this file when reporting issues.

## Build

Run `build/build.bat` to compile `src/TalkPaste.ahk` into a standalone executable. The script auto-detects an optional icon (`src/mic.ico`). Ensure Ahk2Exe is installed and available on your PATH.

Automated builds are available via GitHub Actions. Each push, pull request, or manual dispatch triggers the **Build STTPortable (Windows)** workflow, which compiles the project and uploads both `TalkPaste.exe` and `TalkPaste.zip` artifacts. Download them from **Actions → Build STTPortable (Windows) → latest run → Artifacts**.

After a successful local build the script also creates `build/TalkPaste.test`, which is just the generated executable with the extension renamed for easier file sharing. Rename it back to `TalkPaste.exe` before running it on Windows.

## Manual Tests

See [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) for end-to-end scenarios that verify recording, transcription, hotkey changes, and failure handling.

## Credits

- [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/)
- [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp)
- [AutoHotkey v2](https://www.autohotkey.com/v2/)
